there are a lot of youtubers who make
the sanctimonious statement at the
beginning or end of their video whittle
if it helps just one person then this is
the way it's normally about you know
some incredibly self intelligent topic
like well this video talking about how I
finally learn to dye the roots of my
hair are consistent blonde cover but
just one person will be worth it talking
about my weight loss transformation or
whatever it is there's a lot of a lot of
this kind of stuff I've got to say I
find it kind of daunting to make videos
that I that I know will help just one
person because I think a lot of the time
the the questions or problems I get sent
in by just one person are not going to
be that relevant to the life and
interests of the rest of my audience is
not going to have the power or
educational potential of a more general
methodological kind of discussion but I
got a question from a supporter on
patreon I'm gonna skip ahead to the
addendum the very end of the question
and then read the whole thing so the
very end of the question she wrote
PostScript to what extent is this
problem here in a moment to what extent
is this problem a result of my being
told that uh I was pretty my entire life
and not asked to do any meaningful self
work
aside from physically maintaining my
state of being pretty
so she means interrupts bringing this
was the the emphasis so I want to jump
right in and give a short answer to that
the answer is the same if you met
someone who grew up training to be a
tennis pro just playing tennis all the
time and then they asked ug to what
extent are my problems my philosophical
or professional or self esteem based on
the fact that I spent all my time
playing tennis of course of course this
is part of the problem or part of the
explanation and again in both cases I
choose tennis for a reason it's not
entirely bad I mean playing tennis isn't
evil isn't terrible in some ways it's a
waste of time or a shallow or
meaningless or its failed to solve this
other problem of course if you grew up I
mean I again assume Melissa's off camera
I don't know if you knew some people who
grew up that way whether it was ice
hockey or tennis or any other physically
demanding sport but there
people who wake up every day at 5:30
a.m. and go to practice you know against
the hope of being on the Olympic team or
the varsity team or whatever it is she
woke up and did the scales every day in
the bus so to some extent musical
instruments had that role in your life
where you saw the danger and potential
of that of it you know dominating you
so on a mass scale
a lot of women wake up every morning
half an hour earlier than they would to
do their their hair and makeup they
spend a significant percentage of their
mental energy and time and money being
pretty now I would just emphasize as
with playing the violin or playing
tennis it's not 100% bad like I can't
say there are a lot of things really say
if you gambling is what you're doing
playing blackjack or poker or slot
machine I think that's a hundred percent
bad it's a pure loss but I mean I think
there's something to be gained or learn
from the artistry of makeup or from the
physical discipline of playing tennis
however yeah it is kind of mostly bad or
mostly meaningless I'm not I'm not
positive oh yes is it that's how she
closed it oh here's that here's the
first part of her question she says I
apologize for treating you like a guru
but I'm genuinely interesting your
thoughts on this question as a 24 year
old assume Melissa's not 26 so to say
this question comes from a young woman
who's not that far off from Los Angeles
my perception of the world and myself
more and more every day I feel as though
I have no personality I feel as though I
am entirely just a mirror or
amalgamation or permutation of the
people around me and the media I have
hazard Li consumed every every
quote-unquote original thought every
seemingly original thought I have I
eventually unto unearth the true source
of which is not me so when she thinks
about where these thoughts yes comes
from if she finds something
source of them that she's just repeating
or echoing something she's read over as
well her question is is it that nothing
not even the self is ever original or is
it that I haven't lived enough to become
a true self those are her words so you
can see where she apologizes for
treating me like a guru just the
phrasing here is a bit yeah it's a bit
staying late after yoga class and it's
it's that expression doesn't mean it
doesn't mean it's a bad question so look
you know first part I won't respond to
again isolating kind of different bits
and pieces of this question is
originality what really matters here you
know thanks to computer databases we now
know it's impossible to play an original
game of chess if you go if you practice
playing chess you feel really great at
chess and you go to a chess champion so
you have every single game being played
at a Chess Championship has happened
before now if you have an incredibly
stupid incredibly idiotic game by two
people who are in the civils where you
know that game doesn't make sense okay
it's possible it's never happen but the
point is there's a limited range of
possible moves at each stage of a game
of chess there's a limited number of
moves that are strategically valid or
viable once you're at a high level of
skill so every game of chess has already
been played now it's a real question his
chess worth playing is this a worthwhile
use your time is it worthwhile to paint
pictures and especially when you look
within one genre you know there's a
Chinese genre of painting that are just
called bird and branch paintings you can
you can guess it is depending of so it's
normally a flower on a branch or a leaf
on a branch and a bird at the moment of
landing or taking off a branch I can't
say if you've seen one you've seen them
all but if you've seen 100 or 200 of
them you've seen them all do you want to
dedicate your time to this kind of
classical Chinese painting creating it
or even looking at it I mean you could
already guess through my tone of voice I
don't valorize these things culturally
it doesn't seem that that well but is is
originality what what matters right I
mean I think that there's maybe an air
in in the question here in that she's
asking you know
okay there's there's a really meaningful
part of this just feeling that you're
not anybody feeling that there's not
that you you don't have a self that
you're not generating meaning of your
own not creating or destroying something
for yourself that you're merely echoing
things other people that I understand
that however the solution your problem
and the criteria and you're looking for
for something real or something
meaningful I think probably can't be
originality but this is so that the
person or enemy I presume she's American
this is definitely an aspect of American
culture because American United States
America is a culture where there's a
very very little value placed on
tradition so like you know when I was
studying patli which is an ancient dead
language in Asia a lot of the things I
did which made me a very powerful
scholar contrast other people who didn't
do this kind of work it would involve
literally copying out by hand
manuscripts I mean repetition
traditional forms of scholarship and
learning you know that we don't do in
the West I mean nobody sits down and
says wow I have so much respect for
William Shakespeare I'm gonna write out
this play by hand I'm gonna actually
study how it's written on that level of
actually copying it up by hand or I'm
gonna memorize and recite these
monologues in you know original
pronunciation and accent understand the
phonology of it and anyone could in the
irony you don't need a PhD to do that
you can submit it has to have a respect
for tradition and understanding that one
mode of learning really is walking in
the footsteps of the master doing
something completely unoriginal
completely conformist but sure I think
we do that or I as a person I do that in
order to be an original philosopher
myself and in order to be a better
original political thinker original
writer myself it's true i'm i'm creating
a basis to do something original but
there's a lot there's a lot of totally
unoriginal work whether it's the artist
copying another person's painting or the
scholar writing is up my own
or if you reason why somebody might read
Greek philosophy is to have a better
idea
for what Britany about current politics
yep yeah just have an alien vantage
point I'm going to take another look
[Music]
right but I mean look I think another
another problem here in the phrasing of
the question is that she talks about
selfs work which is very American so she
says to reread I'm becoming more and
more familiar with my perception of the
world and quote-unquote myself every day
I feel as though I have no personality
so that's that's the big problem here
and then the postscript says to what
extent was this problem created by my
being told that I was pretty that what's
important is being pretty and not to do
any meaningful self work besides
maintaining my state of being pretty but
you see self work it's like prayer it's
like meditation I mean it's absurd when
you pray you're not praying to anyone
you're praying dear so you're talking to
yourself when you pray same with
meditation you don't learn anything from
prayer
I mean self work is not work right and
all the examples I've just given or work
whether it's copying a painting or
studying Shakespeare you know what does
matter philosophy politics what-have-you
or actually even playing tennis is work
it's not self work it's you know I think
there is something here that comes out
of the yoga the yoga studio you know
comes out of watered down white Western
Hinduism you know Hinduism as marketed
to white people which is also misleading
so I mean but your your sense of having
a personality my point is why would that
arise from self or why would it be from
introspection and not from after a
special firm actually doing things
whether creative or destructive why
wouldn't arise from work yeah
yeah did you feel that way I won't say
Jamil get it get personal come on yeah
yeah but really the kind of person that
I was you know I felt like veganism was
a very positive change in my life and
that's that's how I found your channel
and so on so so that that was a big
turning point in my life going vegan but
before that Martin definitely you know
remember how it felt to feel like I have
no basis to form opinions about things
well I think this is a coincidence
because today I was planning to make
another video talking about this under a
totally different heading but I think
one of the big gaps between myself and
mainstream white American and we're
speaking culture by the way this
includes Hispanic people and black
people for the most part like it's
really not exclusively but it is this is
especially typical of white
english-speaking Americans if you're
qubcois this probably applies to you
but you know this is especially white
english-speaking Americans where they
really create a divide between who you
really are your true self when what you
do you know what you are and what you do
being two very different things I mean
you mentioned that the realization was
that what you did with your time is who
you are or I become we are door to
whatever extent but I mean like for me
that's that's very profoundly alien and
it even comes back to the image of the
tennis player okay if you wake up and
you train like a professional athlete
every day you are a professional athlete
even if you're an unsuccessful
profession that doesn't mean you're
gonna win doesn't mean you're better
than someone else playing tennis but if
you put in 40 hours a week
say training is a tennis pro then that
that is who you are
it's good it's gonna have all these
knock-on effects I think many of them
negative in your life you know now again
with with habits of the mind this was
even obvious to me in in Buddhist
scholarship and again I was always a
very kind of secular a nihilistic person
but like I was waking up early and
putting huge numbers of hours into
really studying this language and
there'd be people in PhD programs who
were amazed like oh wow you've
accomplished so much in two years and by
the way I was simultaneously learning
lotion and had a job and I was doing
other things I was going to the gym too
but so what are you guys doing with your
time yeah you know they're playing video
games and drinking alcohol or whatever I
mean they're doing whatever it's doing
but the point is just for me again I
wanted to make another video talking
about this there isn't this divide
between Who I am and what I do and for
that same reason I'm not looking for a
kind of justification for my identity or
self but a lot of people feel I've seen
this with people who say like I am an
anthropologist I said what do you
actually do and what have you done last
several years like do you even read
anthropology and like becomes often it
becomes obvious in the conversation they
don't they're not even reading current
publications anthropology they're also
not going out in the field and doing
original research and writing and
producing it but they have the sense I'm
an anthropologist and the fact that I'm
a self-pitying alcoholic
that's just happenstance that's just
something this is just what I do with my
time you know as opposed to who I really
am but was one of the most common is
being a writer this thing I am a writer
I am an author okay what you know you
know do you write six pages a day you
know what do you do what do you what do
you actually are you actually living the
life of a writer and I think that can be
asked under under a whole headings
- you know this button do audience
doesn't that after I after I graduated
from university I was kind of trying to
decide what I would do after that should
I come on to get a masters degree and
this was part of it you know I mean I'm
influenced to say that's because he just
said I'm an anthropologist or I'm a
writer we're trying to give myself an
identity then after graduating with a
degree in English what am I going to be
now and you know I I did pursue some
education to maybe become something else
than a writer than just somebody with
English sure but I I get you know her
phrasing was about not having a
personality yeah I guess for me it was
more like struggling with an identity so
I don't know if you really can separate
those two identity versus versus
personality but like in itself the
Netflix or television is not evil you
know you can use these tools to learn
but there are plenty of documentaries on
Netflix that can teach you something
um but I think a lot of people use
Netflix just for inane entertainment
right many many hours just spend you
know completely wasting time and not
addressing the fact that I felt like I
didn't have an identity and that's why
you know I already said it but I want to
emphasize that when I when I learned
about veganism that could be something I
could identify with and that was part of
my growing identity I said okay now I am
a vegan like it's something you do and
it's something you are right you happen
to be an atheist right
rather than being pretty right so the
crisis is to be clear getting to age 24
and feeling like you have no personality
and feel like you of no original
thoughts that everything about you is an
echo or regurgitation of some other
source I mean that's the that's the
process and I think the underlying issue
is shown by her presuming that the
solution is quote unquote self work
which I don't agree with I think that's
as misleading as thinking that the
solution is prayer or meditation or just
introspection or someone said I got to
spend more time alone you know and for
me it's it's really the opposite and I
don't think a lot can be learned from
playing tennis but contrast is miserable
that's one of the reasons why I'm fairly
sex-positive and I'm against things like
skiing I actually think I mean again
when you're not talking about
prostitution with a language barrier
which is exactly what surrounds you in
Thailand is men paying for sex with
prostitutes where they have no common
language of course it's not but most
human relationships dating and falling
in love with somebody's but you normally
do learn a lot from those notions just
just mentioning in contrast to 10s or so
we have look I want to come back to what
you raised earlier which is what is
meant by personality so personality and
contrast to identity right and I think
probably what she means here is being
the sort of person who has something to
assert not just who is assertive but
someone who when talking to co-workers
or family members or something is in
effect low-key in a constant state of
conflict
because they have contrasting views that
they want to assert right now why would
that be the case I was thinking about
this the other day I mean some of these
women I forget about but there was a
woman a good-looking blonde my type I
mean frankly she kind of look like you
know she we know she was she really had
the same sort of very feminine face but
I remember this woman who sat down next
to me on a bus in Laos and in the so she
was a white blonde woman who sat down
they in sterilization and really looking
back on it she probably was interested
in getting into bed with me I was
looking back on it was like why was I
like why was I so negative towards her
why did I completely you know shut her
down like yeah I had a lot of
personality like I had a lot of things
to assert right like is it really
positive like you know I was living in a
situation where most of the other white
men around me were like alcoholics
sleeping with prostitutes and there's
always this sense of asserting that's
not who I am in terms of how I looked I
was I was younger than I am now but I
was doing 100 push-ups a day not 200
maybe and riding a bicycle and stuff
people thought I was in the US military
and I was living in a country that had
been completely destroyed by the US
military
Laos more bombs were dropped on Laos
than were dropped on Germany and Japan
combined in World War two
so was country destroyed by American
militarism and people think I mean the
US mother's I have to assert I'm not in
the army not that kind of guy you know
and I'm not ex-military either I'm not
pro-american North I don't support like
in that war I'm not here making excuses
for what the Americans do being being
good at something and then even within
Buddhism right well for one thing that
most of the Buddhist eat meat and drink
alcohol you know I don't eat meat but
I'm not this kind of hippy Buddhist I'm
not cool with any and if the [ __ ]
within that religion so I'm living in a
state of many uncomfortable
contradictions and I'm always asserting
my personality in contrast to people's
expectations of me or the demands
they're putting on me
therefore I have a personality right but
it arises through contrasting opposites
its perceptual right like also by the
way living in Laos people thought I was
fat because everyone else is so skinny
it didn't actually use the word fat but
know that I was considered such as
consider enormous in all directions but
I mean these things arise their relative
their their contrast but this is purely
you know psychological and based on
values it's not based on anything with
physical limits like being fat versus
being thin now look what if I had been
in a cultural context where I wasn't
challenged on those things how much
personality do I really have you know I
want to conform I'm a nonconformist
because I live in a society that I
despise and a society that despises me
and that's not just true of Laos and
Cambodia that's incredibly true of say
Toronto Canada and you know again then
there were different contrasts like I'm
not a communist each corner I grew up
right oh that's so cool you know this
this person we don't know that much
better obviously having a personality
whether it's good or bad
the reality is you would arrive at that
point of both being perceived as someone
who has a personality and actually being
a personality if you get out and do work
and you know engage the world even if
it's something like you study volcanoes
whatever it is and then you're living in
a context where you have to assert your
personality rather than conform to or
succumb to things that you despise so I
mean so in a meaningful sense I think
having a contract having a personality
means living in a constant state of
contradiction is that people are saying
things to you or inviting you to do
things even I was I would get invited to
go and watch soccer you know obviously
from the British before they all will
come have a beer and watch soccer and
I've got to assert back that's not who I
am this is who I like you think that's
who I am
I'm not even insulted that's not who I
am I
you know whatever the thing is you're
being you're being invited to so look
I'm gonna sympathize I think you know
she gets the point that we're both
saying sure if you really don't have
something meaningful in your life you
got to take on projects and so on but
probably a lot of what you're thinking
about in terms of personality has to do
with this kind of challenge mutual
challenge contrast and contradiction